#1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?#

I am interested in programming because I&#39;m interested in the problems it can solve in industries that I would like to contribute to. Throughout my education and career, I have chosen a common thread of helping both people and the environment and my goal is to improve products that benefit both. My education and career have focused on renewable energy and I enjoyed working as a wind energy consultant for 5 years and environmental consultant for 2.5 years in Seattle. I am also motivated by social and environmental justice causes, and actively volunteer on the board of a non-profit organization supporting fair trade education and sales for the past 5 years.

Through programming, I believe I would most effectively contribute to the causes I support and hold close to my heart. Furthermore, I enjoy challenges and I miss the creativity and sense of calm and focus I&#39;ve experienced in analytical work. I&#39;d like to learn programming to develop tools to be more creative in problem-solving and to take on new challenges. I would enjoy being part of an industry that creates useful and elegant products and requires ongoing learning of an ever-evolving toolset. I feel great satisfaction in creating - whether it&#39;s a complicated technical report, cooking a 10-person dinner ([I&#39;m known for my Thanksgiving Gantt charts](https://www.dropbox.com/s/q8sm86y1e7qggur/Thanksgiving%20Gantt%20Chart%202015.png?dl=0)) or organizing a large fundraising gala.

My first exposure to programming was a required college course in Java in my Junior year. Before this class, it had never even occurred to me to take a programming class although it&#39;s hard for me to put myself back in the shoes of my 20-year old self and understand why I had that mentality. But, I greatly enjoyed the Java assignments and spending countless hours in the computer lab and regularly staying until the 2am closing time and have time to think creatively about the problems. Learning code made me start thinking in code, more linearly and thoughtfully, and it helped me to organize myself in other classes. I didn&#39;t take any other programming classes in college though, ultimately because I didn&#39;t enjoy the competitive atmosphere. Many years later in my job as a wind energy consultant, I did a lot of data analysis in Excel, but didn&#39;t work in programming languages. I would work with analysts who specialized in the data analysis and I performed the overall project management and interfaced with the clients to lead them through the wind feasibility process. My role was thus more in the consultation, mapping and reporting. However, being exposed to huge demand for efficient data management, I decided to test the waters with an ongoing education class on database management through the University of Washington. I realized that to truly dive into programming, I would want to immerse myself in a full-time educational program.



#2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?#

In 5 years, I see myself in a programming job in private industry or a public utility creating tools to assist sustainability sectors. For example, I would welcome the opportunity to return the world of renewable energy or energy efficiency. Sustainability is a crucial topic especially in the face of climate change and overpopulation, and with it, the long-held assumptions about available resources. I would like to lead problem solving, develop new and creative ideas, and work with others. If accepted into Ada, I see many potential paths, and am open to the opportunities that may present themselves, as industries change and evolve.

Most of all, I would like to work as part of a team to create solutions for sustainability.  Regardless of the specific industry, I plan to be an integral and contributing team member, that creates a supportive team and inclusivity ethic. I plan to be learn, ask questions, and help others to do so as well. In the next 5 years, I would also like to be developing skills to eventually manage software teams and work across disciplines, after I&#39;ve honed my programming skills.



#3. After reading Ada&#39;s Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada&#39;s vision for an inclusive and diverse community? [http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program](http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program)#

I see Ada as a program at which I would thrive and grow. I am drawn to the emphasis on inclusivity and learning to understand our and other&#39;s unconscious biases. I want to learn programming in a supportive and caring community and, in turn, create this learning environment for others.  This emphasis on inclusivity is not only critical to my own development in programming, but to the development of a healthier and stronger tech industry. I would welcome the opportunity to bring awareness to an industry that suffers from a lack of different perspectives.

In the past few years, I have gained some close friends in the programming field several of whom are women. With the guidance of these friends, I&#39;ve started doing more reading and discussion about the gender imbalance in the tech and engineering world and it&#39;s anthropological influences¹. I&#39;ve learned about the shortcomings of our education systems, and the invisible social influences that alienate minorities. It&#39;s helped me to look inwards and discover why I have made my own personal choices. I can see myself in reading the case studies about high school girls feeling like they don&#39;t &quot;deserve&quot; or aren&#39;t &quot;meant&quot; for computer science, because they only see boys studying it, and those boys don&#39;t have many interests beyond computer science. I can relate to a common female sentiment that they want a career that helps people and involves working with others- but we are surrounded by programming students who self-isolate and don&#39;t talk to each other in class.

I have been a Big Sister in the Big Brothers, Big Sisters program for over 7 years, and feel strongly about role models and support networks in girls&#39; lives. I often wonder if it would have taken me this long to discover my interest in programming if I myself had a Big Sister or other role model. It&#39;s important to me that we start working towards educational and social systems where girls and young women feel included and receive encouragement and support in programming and other technical disciplines. I hope I can provide this for other girls through mentorship and volunteering. I would also help to create this support community for myself by making time to get to know and work closely with my fellow Ada classmates, and actively seek out women-in-tech networking groups and conferences.

_¹My favorite books so far are: &quot;Unlocking the Clubhouse: Women in Computing&quot; by Margolis and Fisher, and &quot;Reviving Ophelia: Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls&quot; by Pipher._



#4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?#

On a Wednesday morning in October 2011, I was at my desk at work, uploading my GPS data and photographs at my computer that I had collected at a potential wind site in Eastern Washington the day before. I was putting together a photo simulation to understand the potential visual impacts of a wind farm on surrounding properties. Suddenly, a calendar announcement popped into my inbox for a meeting in 15 minutes in the largest conference room, and I was the only invitee. That morning, I and 10% of my coworkers were laid off in the wake of the recession.

The mistake I made was to think that this lay off was a reflection on me personally and my fitness to be in the wind energy field, or any technical field, for that matter. My confidence was crushed. I had been working incredibly hard to keep up my billability percentage over the previous year as the company took a financial downturn (consultants charge every 15 minutes of time to a &quot;billable&quot; client). I had long suffered from the Imposter Syndrome and my dismissal seemed like a clear message that I was truly a fraud, and had finally been &quot;found out&quot;. I know now that is not the truth, but it has taken years of building back this confidence. The wind industry&#39;s nose dive was simply the direct result of the lack of federal support to continue the wind energy production tax credit and the country&#39;s overall financial uncertainty.

This change in my life allowed me to explore some other unexpected careers. I went on to become a teacher for adults with fear of water- ironically, a job where I was encouraging people to trust themselves and externalize fears. The experience gave me the opportunity to reflect on what made me blame myself for being let go and how this lack of confidence has shaped other choices in my life. For many people who are not comfortable in water, there is a lot of shame. Over 40% of people in the U.S. are not comfortable in water, but we never hear about it. I spoke openly with my students, some in their 70s who carried this shame of their inabilities their whole lives. It is also a social problem- many of these people &quot;inherit&quot; this fear from their parents or it is often tied to the lack of pools and safe beaches in poor communities. Others have been made to feel shame about their body and never felt comfortable being in a bathing suit. The more I&#39;ve learned about the external factors in my students lives that contributed to their fear, the more I&#39;ve learned about mine.

I believe my loss of confidence originates from many experiences over of a number of years, ranging from high school through career life. A look at my resume might not reveal this internal narrative – I studied engineering at an Ivy League University, to worked in an engineering sector, regularly performed data analyses, and learned new software programs. However, the Imposter Syndrome followed me throughout. I am continually learning from this new awareness I&#39;ve gained, and it&#39;s been a direct contributor to my interest in becoming a programmer. I want to become a programmer and feel like I belong. If I ever have the bad fortune to experience a layoff again, I&#39;ll know those forces are not a reflection of my abilities, and I&#39;ll have developed the confidence and social network to remind me of this, and keep growing.
